# Verify that a patient has Medicare primary coverage

This function accepts a data frame `df`, an index date option
`index_date` which is either a fixed date or the name of a date variable
in quotes, and a variable `lookback_days` that encodes how many days of
Medicare coverage are necessary.

## Usage

``` r
verify_medicare_primary(
  df,
  index_date,
  lookback_days = 365,
  medicare_coverage_df = NULL,
  coverage_start_variable = NULL,
  coverage_end_variable = NULL,
  cache = FALSE
)
```

## Arguments

- df:

  is a data frame, presumably one with a single row per patient. Data
  frame *must* contain a column named `USRDS_ID`.

- index_date:

  either a fixed date or the name of a date variable in quotes

- lookback_days:

  is the number of days of Medicare as primary necessary. Default value
  is 365.

- medicare_coverage_df:

  is an optional parameter containing a df from the `payhist` file.

- coverage_start_variable:

  is the name of the variable containing the start date of Medicare
  primary coverage for the coverage spell containing the `index_date`.
  The default value of NULL specifies no variable returned.

- coverage_end_variable:

  is the name of the variable containing the end date of Medicare
  primary coverage for the coverage spell containing the `index_date`.
  The default value of NULL specifies no variable returned.

- cache:

  whether or not to cache, or use a previously cached version, of the
  medicare coverage data frame. This can save substantial amounts of
  time in a loop.

## Value

The original `df` data fame with the variable `medicare_primary_TF`
added

## Details

An optional variable `medicare_coverage_df` allows for a df containing
information from the `payhist` file to be passed to the function. If
left NULL, then the function will load the data via the
`load_usrds_file` function, which can be very inefficient for multiple
function calls.

It returns the same dataframe with a new variable `medicare_primary_TF`
that takes the values `TRUE` or `FALSE`.

Optionally, the start dates and end dates of Medicare primary coverage
for that coverage spell can also be returned by specifying names for the
return variables in the `coverage_start_variable` and
`coverage_end_variable` parameters. If unspecified, these parameters
will not be returned.

For repeated use, setting `cache`=TRUE will either cache or use the
processed version of the Medicare coverage file (whether generated by
the function or derived from the `medicare_coverage_df` passed to the
function).

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{

test_df<-data.frame(
USRDS_ID=c(30, 111112),
initial_dates=as.Date(c("1994-01-01", "2019-01-01"))
)

verify_medicare_primary(df=test_df, index_date = "initial_dates", lookback_days = 365)

} # }
```
